To run 2 included examples, from the release directory:
../main refine/frame.param
../main head/frame.param

To watch tracking on these examples, visit an inbetween frame, select
all contours by shift-clicking after selecting the "select" tool
(arrow in toolbar at top), and select "redo track" from the tracking
menu.  Note that interactive refinement will be necessary to get
perfect results (see video on project web page for example).

To start from scratch, the arguments are:

<file-root> <start-frame> <end-frame>

So, for example, from the release dir, you can run:

../main amira-queen/frame 28 58

---------------------------------------------------- 

At the top of the interface, from left-to-right, is a frame-navigator,
a button to toggle between tracking and animating mode (animating mode
is not documented here), and to reset the zoom.  Then, you may select
from five tools; draw, select, transform, nudge, and zoom.

From any tool, holding down CTRL will turn that tool into dragging
tool; allowing you to drag around the image (when zoomed in).

Drawing Splines at keyframes: 

Occurs using the Draw tool, and is similar to the Adobe Illustrator
approach to drawing cubic, Bezier splines with multiple segments.
Note that if you start or finish drawing a spline near the start or
end of another spline, those endpoints will be snapped together into a
joint (meaning the endpoints will stay together).  You cannot join the
end of a spline to its own beginning; so use multiple contours to
achieve a closed shape.  After initial, rough drawing, you can use the
nudge tool to drag control points to more precise locations.

Contextual menus:
Right-clicking on a spline will give you many options.


Tracking splines:

If you click on the "Show tracking samples" radio button, you can see
the samples along each contour that will be tracked.  If a contour is
a silhouette curve, you may wish to only track the interior.  Right
click on a curve -- the first three options allow you to control which
sides of curves are tracked.

Once you have drawn contours in the first frame, and selected which
sides to track, you need to copy the contours forward in time to a
later keyframe.  Select the contours you wish to copy (holding Shift
will allow you to select multiple curves), and select "Copy Spline
through time" from the Tracking menu.  This will allow you to copy
forward a specified number of frames.

Next, visit the last frame that you copied to, and edit the shape to
fit the video.  This can be done by nudging individual control points,
and by using the Transform tool.  With the transform tool, shift-click
selects individual Bezier segments, while ctrl-shift-click selects a
whole contour.  You can translate, scale, or rotate the selected
segments by dragging at the center, lower,left, or anywhere-else,
respectively, of the green bounding-box.

Next, visit any in-between frame, select the contours you wish to
track, and select "Redo track" from the Tracking menu.  The first time
you do this, the system will calculate image pyramids for each frame,
which may take a while; you can see progress by watching the printouts
in the xterm.  Tracking will then occur -- you can watch the progress
in the interface.  Please wait until it finishes before interacting
with the result (though you can visit other frames while it tracks).

Interactive refinement:

When the result isn't good enough, you can drag individual control
points to their correct location.  Then, re-run the tracking.  The
dragged control pts will remain fixed.  By pressing the "visualize
effort" button on the right, you can see in purple which control
points have been edited (either at keyframes or after refinement).

